The President: Hi everybody.
Five years
ago, we finally declared
that in America, health care
is not a privilege for a few,
but a right for all.
And this week, after more
than fifty votes in Congress
to repeal or weaken this
law; after a Presidential
election based in part on
preserving or repealing this
law; after multiple
challenges to this law
before the Supreme Court,
we can now say this for
certain: the Affordable Care
Act still stands, it is
working, and it
is here to stay.
On Thursday, when the Court
upheld a critical part of
the Affordable Care Act,
it was a victory for
hardworking Americans all
across this country whose
lives are more secure
because of this law.
This law means that if
you're a parent, you can
keep your kids on your
plan until they turn 26.
If you're a senior, or an
American with a disability,
this law gives you discounts
on your prescriptions.
You can't be charged more
just because you're a woman.
And you can't be
discriminated against just
for having a
pre-existing condition.
This law is working exactly
as it's supposed to - and in
some ways, better than
we expected it to.
So far more than 16 million
uninsured Americans
have gained coverage.
Nearly one in three
Americans who was uninsured
a few years ago
is insured today.
The uninsured rate in
America is the lowest since
we began to keep
such records.
The law has helped hold the
price of health care to its
slowest growth in 50 years.
If your family gets
insurance through the
workplace, not through the
Affordable Care Act, you're
paying about $1,800 less per
year on average than you
would be if trends before
this law had continued -
which is good for workers
and it's good for the
economy.
The point is, this is not
some abstract political
debate.
For all the misinformation
campaigns, and doomsday
predictions; for all the
talk of death panels and job
destruction; for all
the repeal attempts -
this law is helping tens
of millions of Americans.
This isn't just
about Obamacare.
This is health
care in America.
With this case behind us,
we're going to keep working
to make health care in
America even better and
more affordable, and to
get more people covered.
But it is time to stop
refighting battles
that have been settled
again and again.
It's time to move on.
Because as Americans,
we don't go backwards,
we move forwards.
We take care
of each other.
We root for one
another's success.
We strive to do better,
to be better, than the
generation before us, and
we try to build something
better for the generation
coming behind us.
With this behind us, let's
come together and keep
building something
better right now.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.